# QOSF 2024 fall cohort solutions

I have tried to solve Task 2 as well but please for my official submission consider Task 1.

# Task 1 : 

## Explanation :

This task checks the time required for quantum operations upon increase in the number of computational qubits. For the same purpose I test our results for standard quantum circuit using pennylane's lightning qubit device. this is just for an initial test and has no purpose with the tasks. 

### Sub task 1:
Our main solution starts in the next bit where the "simulation" of these quantum operations are carried out using simple arithmetic with the help of numpy library. The vector size increases as O($2^n$) and the computation time for matrix dot product must also follow a similar trend. Here I use the idea of statevector simulation, where multi-qubit (n qubit) circuits and states are represented using $2^n$ sized vectors obtained using the kronecker product of computational basis `[1,0]` denoting $|0\rangle$. Then the quantum operations are carried out using matrices of size $2^n \times 2^n$. The time required for these computations to make is then plotted and as the graph suggests the computation time increases monotonously with increase in the number of qubits as is expected. The trend here resembles that of an exponential graph. I have tested this circuit with several # of qubits but it seems like operator actions become almost impossible beyond 12 qubits. Hence I am keeping that as an upper limit. 

The technique here is that $|000\rangle$ = `[1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]` if you operate it with X(0) it will become $|100\rangle$ = `[0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0]`. The init state is acquired using `np.kron([1,0]*num_qubits)`. Same goes for X & H gates. But the CNOT Gate is not so trivial. So initially I use qiskit's circuit to operator functionality using `Operator.from_circuit(QuantumCircuit)` method after sequentially operating the CNOT gate as I wish for value based accuracy. But I thought it could perform better and since our goal is to check the computational load I relaxed the result accuracy a little. Here's what I did : I calculated the kronecker product of CNOT n_qubits//2 times and took the direct sum of an identity matrix with cnot in case of odd num_qubit. This will provide us an operator of appropriate dimensions and I can subsequently calculate the growth rate of runtime with respect to increasing qubits.

### Sub task 2:
Next I use an advanced simulation method by using tensors which is also another "classical" technique. The first idea is to writing the tensors as a tensor of shape `(2,2,...)` n times. We treat gates similarly too. We do not need to change single qubit gates as their shape is already((2,2)), but we do need to `reshape` 2 qubit gates since the dimensions they have is $2^2 \times 2^2$ i.e $4 \times 4$. Here I would have to play around with the axes since they would allow us to calculate the correct states. For single qubit gates, I use `np.tensordot` for the target axis in the state and the 1st axis in the single qubit operator (because there are only two axes). Then I rearrange the qubits by using `np.transpose` and setting the last qubit in the "target" position and using this list as the transpose method, finally in order to retreieve the correct state. Similarly for double qubit gates we follow the same routine by applying `tensordot` as `state = np.tensordot(state, gate, axes=([control, target], [0, 1]))`. We then as we did before by bringing the second last qubit in the control position and the last qubit in the target position. We also must pop out the last two entries since then there would be a shape mismatch otherwise. After that we transpose the state in the fashion dictated by the aforementioned `axes` list that we have created.

### BONUS
The BONUS section deals with sampling of these simulated quantum states mimicking real measurements using `np.random.choice` parameterized by the probability ($coefficient^2$) of each of these states and then sampling the same for 100 shots. Secondly the calculation of expectation value is also pretty simple as all we have to do for any arbitrary operator of appropriate shape is : $\langle \psi | O | \psi \rangle =$ `np.dot(np.conjugate(statevec), np.dot(O, statevec))`.